Carbamazepine, sold under the trade name Tegretol<sup>®</sup> among others, is an anticonvulsant medication used primarily to treat epilepsy and neuropathic pain. Other indications include schizophrenia where it is used as an adjunctive treatment along with other medications, and bipolar disorder where it is used as a second-line agent. Carbamazepine is typically taken by mouth on empty stomach or together with meals, depending on the administered formulation. 

Carbamazepine is extensively metabolized by various enzymes including CYP2B6, 2C8, 3A4, and UGT2B7 ([Kerr 1994](#5-References), [Pelkonen 2001](#5-References), [Staines 2004](#5-References)). Following oral administration the major dose fraction (approx. ) is metabolized to carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide ([Eichelbaum 1985](#5-References), [Tomson 1983](#5-References)). This reaction is mainly catalyzed by CYP3A4, with some contribution from CYP2C8 ([Kerr 1994](#5-References)). After oral administration, a minor fraction of the dose (approximately 1 - 3%) is excreted unchanged in urine ([Bernus 1994](#5-References), [Morselli 1975](#5-References)), while approximately 1% of the dose can be recovered as unchanged drug in the bile ([Terhaag 1978](#5-References)).

Carbamazepine is classified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a strong CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 inducer (https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-interactions-labeling/drug-development-and-drug-interactions) and hence induces its own metabolism.

The herein presented model was developed independently of the model reported by Fuhr et al. ([Fuhr 2021](#5-References)). The main difference between the two models pertains to the metabolite carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide, which is included as separate compound in the model by Fuhr et al. ([Fuhr 2021](#5-References)), but not modeled in the herein presented model. Another structural model differences concerns the enzymatic elimination pathways of carbamazepine; the model by Fuhr et al. ([Fuhr 2021](#5-References)) includes five different metabolism pathways, whereas the herein presented model includes three different metabolism pathways. Additionally, the parameterization of CYP2B6 and 3A4 induction differs between the two models.