The general workflow for building an adult PBPK model has been described by Kuepfer et al. ([Kuepfer 2016](#5-references)). Relevant information on the anthropometry (height, weight) was gathered from the respective clinical study, if reported. Information on physiological parameters (e.g. blood flows, organ volumes, hematocrit) in adults was gathered from the literature and has been incorporated in PK-Sim<sup>速</sup>) as described previously ([Willmann 2007](#5-references)). The  applied activity and variability of plasma proteins and active processes that are integrated into PK-Sim<sup>速</sup> are described in the publicly available 'PK-Sim<sup>速</sup> Ontogeny Database Version 7.3' ([PK-Sim Ontogeny Database Version 7.3](#5-references)).

The PBPK model was developed based on publicly available pharmacokinetic data of adult healthy subjects covering a carbamazepine dose range from 10 to 800 mg following intravenous administration or oral administration as liquid oral dosage form, immediate release (IR) tablet or extended release (XR) formulations in the fasted state. The carbamazepine PBPK model includes metabolism by CYP2B6, CYP3A4, and UGT2B7, unchanged renal excretion, and induction of CYP2B6 and 3A4 by carbamazepine. Pharmacokinetics of carbamazepine following administration in the fed state was not considered in the herein presented model. Furthermore, the metabolite carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide was not modeled as separate compound. 

Unknown parameters (see below) were identified using the Parameter Identification module provided in PK-Sim<sup>速</sup>. Structural model selection was mainly guided by visual inspection of the resulting description of data and biological plausibility. Several parameter identifications were conducted to optimize unknown parameters. In a first step, lipophilicity and enzymatic clearances (catalyzed by CYP3A4, CYP2B6 and UGT2B7) were optimized using observed plasma concentration-time profile data following administration of carbamazepine intravenously or orally as syrup. In a second parameter identification, enzymatic clearances were refined and optimized together with the glomerular filtration rate fraction of carbamazepine and the dissolution kinetics of the IR tablet using observed plasma concentration-time profiles and the dose fraction excreted unchanged in urine after single dose administration of various doses as IR tablet. Subsequently, the EC<sub>50</sub> value of CYP3A4 induction was optimized using observed plasma concentration-time profile data after multiple dose administration of carbamazepine. In a final parameter identification, the dissolution kinetics and carbamazepine solubility of XR formulations were optimized.

Details about input data (physicochemical, *in vitro* and clinical) can be found in [Section 2.2](#22-data).

Details about the structural model and its parameters can be found in [Section 2.3](#23-model-parameters-and-assumptions).

